# Feature overview

- Completely unit tested in PHP version 5.3, 5.4, 5.5 and 5.6
- Configuration: into common and fast way - as array
- Intelligent bootstrapping: depending on the configuration, the framework can bootstrap in testing or production mode.
- Resolver: resolves the user requests to controller and action.
- Controller and actions can be accessed from the browser and from the command line interface.
- Controller:  based on the most popular design patterns for controllers.
 - Action naming like **public function searchAction()** convention
 - If available uses init() for pre-initializing before an action is proceeded.
- Request Manager: for controlled access to the global state of the world.
 - Can manage: POST, GET, CLI params and SERVER.
 - Avoids XSS attacks.
 - Delivers methods for retrieving all server and execution environment information.
- View: a simply view for sending and rendering data
 - JSON: can send data using predefined models
 - HTML: can bind predefined template partials **PHTML** and render them with preassigned variables
- Session Manager: delivers methods for save session handling.
- Entity Manager: based on PDO it is a general manager for data persistence and object relational mapping.
 - Supports the following databases out of the box: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, SQL Server.
 - Loads the predefined data mappers and can manipulate data at the database.
 - Extends PDO for save transactions and can handle with multiple nested transactions.
- Data Mappers: for mapping the domain models to the persistence layer.
 - Can implement a identity map. By using Data-Mapper pattern without an identity map, you can easily run into problems because you may have more than one object that references the same domain entity.
- Logger: with common logging options into a file.
 - User has to define a temporary directory for logging - 0777.
 - Can separate log messages to errors, warnings, debugging, info.
 - If PHP`s display errors is off, so only errors will be logged = production.
- Util Farm: a bunch of useful and proved utilities, making our programmers live easier.
 - Serializer - supports igbinary if activated, for fast serialization.
 - Class Properties Types Insurer
 - XML Convertiner - XML to DOMDocument or SimpleXMLElement or to Array.
 - Message Formater
 - UUID Generator
 - String Util Methods
 - Identifier Generator
 - Validation - fast and secure validators for common data types.
 - Filtering - tainted data filtering.
